Minikube Automation Steps
Step 1: Start Minikube Cluster
•	Open your terminal and run the command:
minikube start
Step 2: Create and Manage Deployment

kubectl create deployment mynginx --image=nginx

if already created then 

kubectl set image deployment/myngnix nginx=nginx:latest

o	Verify the deployment using: Kubernetes responds by showing you a list that includes the names of your deployment groups
kubectl get deployments
	Ensure mynginx appears in the output.
Check the following commands:
	kubectl get pods
	kubectl describe pods
2.	Expose Deployment as a Service:
o	Command:
-------kubectl expose deployment mynginx --type=NodePort --port=80 --target-port=80
Step 3: Scale the Deployment
Command:Scales the Nginx deployment to 4 replicas (pods).
-------kubectl scale deployment mynginx --replicas=4
---------kubectl get service myngnix
Step 4: Access the Nginx App
1.	Using Port Forwarding:
o	Command:
kubectl port-forward svc/mynginx 8081:80

	Access the app via http://localhost:8081.
If Error, use this option, Using Minikube Tunnel:
o	Start the tunnel:
minikube tunnel
o	Retrieve the service URL:
minikube service mynginx --url
o	Open the provided URL in your browser.
o	Open the kubernets dashboard
	Open the minikube dashboard	
Minikube dashboard
Step 5: Stop and Clean Up
1.	Stop Nginx Deployment:
o	Commands:
kubectl delete deployment mynginx
kubectl delete service mynginx
2.	Stop Minikube (Optional):
o	Command:
minikube stop
3.	Delete Minikube Cluster (Optional):
o	Command:minikube delete




---Nagios
Nagios Automation Steps
Step 1: Pull the Nagios Docker Image
•	Open a terminal and run:
----------docker pull jasonrivers/nagios:latest
Step 2: Run Nagios
•	Command:
-----------docker run --name nagiosdemo -p 8888:80 jasonrivers/nagios:latest
Step 3: Access Nagios Dashboard
•	Open your browser and navigate to:
http://localhost:8888
o	Login Credentials:
	Username: nagiosadmin
	Password: nagios
o	Once logged in, explore:
	Hosts: View systems being monitored.
	Services: Check tasks being monitored (e.g., CPU usage).
	Alerts: Access recent notifications.
Step 4: Monitoring Host Details
1.	Navigate to the Host Information Page:
o	Select a host from the Hosts menu.
2.	Key Details:
o	Host Status: Indicates if the system is UP or DOWN.
o	Metrics: View CPU usage, memory status, and network activity.
o	Actions: Reschedule checks, disable notifications, or schedule downtime.
Step 5: Stop and Remove Nagios
1.	Stop the Container:
o	Command:
---------docker stop nagiosdemo
2.	Delete the Container:
o	Command:
------------docker rm nagiosdemo
3.	Remove the Image (Optional):
o	List images:
docker images
o	Delete the Nagios image:
docker rmijasonrivers/nagios:latest

